For our case study,
there are four components that make declarative transaction management work.
The persistence context proxy, the entity manager proxy,
the transactional aspect, and the platform transaction manager.
Let's go over each one and see how they interact with each other.
Entities are objects that live in a database and are
managed by the entity manager.
The entity manager defines the methods that are used to
interact with the persistence context.
So what is a persistence context?
The database transaction happens inside the scope of a persistence context.
Each entity manager instance is associated with a persistence context,
a set of manage entity instances that exist in a particular data store,
in our case H2.
A persistence context defines the scope under which
particular entity instances are created,
persisted, and removed.
The transaction aspect manages transactions for any methods with the
@Transactional annotation and uses a transaction interceptor,
which intercepts method calls for an associated target class.
It's important to note that the interceptor is called both before and
after the method is invoked on the object reference.
The transactional aspect has two main responsibilities.
One, at the before moment,
it determines if the business method about to be called should run
in the scope of an ongoing database transaction,
or if a new transaction should be started.
Second, at the after moment, it decides if the transaction should be committed,
rolled back, or left running.
The transaction manager abstraction, in this case,
is Spring's platform transaction manager interface,
and JPA transaction manager is the only implementation of
that interface that understands JPA.
So that's what we'll use in this course.
During the course, you may hear me say transaction manager.
No, I'm specifically referring to the JPA transaction manager.
The transaction manager is responsible for providing essential methods for
controlling transaction operations at runtime like begin, commit, and rollback.